commodity group is the most skillful and which is
perhaps the least skillful in maximizing their
capability? Well, you know, I'm not really sure,
but I'm guessing the cattlemen are probably as
powerful as anybody in terms of getting pressure
put on them. But then again, the cattlemen There's
not that many government programs in cattle, but
as far as if you want to muster some power, I would
think the Cattlemen's Association would be. All
right, but in marketing their product, are they
skillful? Skillful. In getting about as well,
doing about as well as the price could be? That's, I
couldn't, you know, I can't separate out a group
that's that skillful in marketing their product.
Cooperatives, probably the dairy guys, might be
because of just the nature of their product and the
nature of their organization. The dairy people
might be the better marketers. But didn't you tell
me, wasn't it you or somebody else told me that the
Vidalia onion people that have done much more
skillfully the marketing of their onion than the
Texans have of the 1015s. I'm not sure I told you
that, but I presume Vidalia is maybe better known.
That's what it's meaning. Yeah, it may have done a
better. And that our crop, our product is probably
as good or better. Yeah, the guys in the valley,
bless their hearts, have not been, well, they're
so independent. They're so individualistic that
it's hard to get them to work together. And that's
part of what we were doing down there in the early
60s was trying to get them, Marketing orders were
looked at as almost communistic. We don't want
that. That's bad. That's communist. Almost. They
were going to add the paper like that. So they
haven't been, whereas California is just the
opposite. California is known for marketing
orders and cooperatives and Sunkist and Calcott
and all that kind of thing. They've done, if you
want to see how to market stuff historically, you
went to California. The Texans were... You know,
we don't want that stuff. We'll do it our way and
suffered for it, I think. California, you know,
Florida is not a good example of good marketing and
the money they put into it. They put up the money to
do it, orange juice and grapefruit and things like
that. So as far as skillfully marketing their
stuff, I don't know that, you know, somebody's
probably shooting me but I'm trying to think of a
group that I think is really good at that in Texas.
It may be some of the grapefruit guys have their own
associations. What about among those that have
been least successful? Well, you know, you've got
one side of the coin, there's the other. Marketing
is where a lot of them have producers produce.
That's what they want to do. They want to produce.
And they assume that having produced, they're
owed a fair price. And when they don't get it, they
don't understand it. They don't want to put the
time and effort into marketing or risk
management. It's a tough education process
because producing this stuff does take a lot of
time and effort. And they just don't, many of them
want to get into the marketing side of it. I think
probably Plains Cotton Cooperative out in
Lubbock has done some good work marketing their
stuff, marketing their cotton. And I think you
could probably go to maybe the Texas Grapefruit or
Citrus Association in the Valley. They've done
some good work. But agriculture by its nature,
even though it's had government programs all
these many years, is a bunch of damned independent
people. They're hard to get to work together. In
all of your marketing research, which was the most
enjoyable, most pleasant, most fun? Well... I
think working with the pecan people, their
laid-back bunch, has been, was interesting. The
honey people are, and I'm mostly, when I say
marketing, I'm really more in the price analysis
part of it, but the honey people are fun to work
with. What little I've done with them just the last
few years. But I can't really think of any that
weren't interesting to try to figure out how they
do this and why this happens and try to forecast the
price. They've all, you know, it's a bunch of
cases. And I can't think of the ones that scare me
the most were in the valley where these guys didn't
want you messing in their business. Of which, of
all of those tasks, all your work, of which are you
most proud? Well, trying to explain price
behavior in something like pecans or a little bit
in the honey thing and the citrus crops in the
valley where you try to look at the market, see
what's happening, imports, exports, stocks,
whatever, and try to forecast the prices and see if
you can actually explain why the price did what it
did. Do you remember any specific examples of
where suddenly a light came on and somebody jumped
on board and agreed with you? Oh, yeah. I think that
happens to some extent in pecans and some of the
citrus work we did in the valley. And that's always
reassuring that you see them understand what's
happening, why this is happening to us. That's
rewarding. Like when you see it in class, you know,
when kids understand something that you're
trying to teach, it's the same thing with adults.
And they appreciate it because basically this
whole economic side thing, like the beekeepers
just don't, grasp what's going on. Does anybody
ever write a note or pick up the phone or anything to
say, hey, I really appreciate your work? Once in a
while you get that. Once in a while. I think some get
it more than others. But I have gotten letters,
yeah, of appreciation for talks here and there or a
publication. When they request your
publications, you kind of get the feeling that
they do appreciate what you're doing. Of all your
publications, of which are you most proud? I
suppose it could be some actually in trade
publications, because I know they've been read by
more people than a journal article. I suppose in
terms of just selfish pride, the ones you've had in
refereed journals are the ones that you think are
the most prestigious. But when I get something in
American Beekeeper or Pecan South or some trade
publication, I feel as good about it because I know
more people have read it and probably gotten more
out of it than they did out of a journal article. But
if somebody walked up to you today and said, give me
two or three of your best, what would you have? I'd
probably pick up the journal articles because
they are refereed. Journal of Futures Market,
there's a couple in there. A couple about what?
about the futures market, risk management,
futures and options contracts. I didn't really
have that many, let's see, southern, most of my, I
had one or two in agricultural, the mother
journal. Most of my stuff was in regional journals
or what did I just say, the future journal of
futures markets. So I would probably pick those
out and say this is, you know, grade D's. Do you have
any research projects now that you will, Want to
work on them? Well, I still do the pecan stuff, but
all this is free. I mean, I'm not getting paid for
it. I do it because I'm interested in it. And the
same thing with the honey. They do pay for my hotel
room, but I don't make any money off of honey or
pecans. You're getting paid in satisfaction.
Yeah, yeah, just the fun of doing it. I do get paid
for going to Guatemala to teach, but it's not money
that you couldn't do without. In your many
extracurricular activities in these almost 40
years, which extracurricular activities do you
most proudly remember? You mean other than a trip
to Europe? Is that an extracurricular activity?
No, no, no. You mean on campus? Yeah. Yeah, well, I
think working with the MSC. Wayne Stark was a force
to be reckoned with on this campus. How did he
identify you? Do you know? No, I don't. I'll bet it
was through Ty Timm. I'm guessing. That's the way
he did because he contacted me one time about
somebody on our faculty. I'm guessing through Ty,
but I don't know. And what was your role with the
MSU? I was on the council, and so was Peggy. And so we
met those kids and worked with Skona, some, as well
as being on the council. And I remember one time we
took a trip to Houston with him, took the
educational trip, you know, this is your fork,
this is your knife, and that sort of thing. And he
did a really good, and sending kids to Harvard and
places like that. So that was a good experience for
me when I first got here. Other than that, I
haven't, when President Vandenberg got here, he
did an interesting thing. He initiated the
Faculty Senate, which lo and behold these many
years was not welcomed on the Texas A&M campus. I
got appointed to that committee, which met about a
year, and came up with a faculty senate, which I
think is a good idea. It's more of an advisory
institution, but I thought that was a needed. In
this day and age, I think Texas A&M needs a faculty
senate. And I think it's pretty well behaved
itself. I think it's been beneficial. I worked
some with, what do you call these 10-year studies?
Southern Association Accreditation. Yeah, I've
been on a couple of those, and those were
interesting. It gives you some perspective on the
institution, but I know there's been stuff other
than that, too, but like I said, I was never a core
advisor
to that group. I was on Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society
for a number of years, up through the ranks,
working with honor students, and that was... A
good experience for me. And working with the
graduate students, that's not extracurricular,
but just seeing them come through here, a
tremendous mix. And from all over the country,
they came. Much more heterogeneous group than the
undergraduates. Of all the people that you have
known here at A&M, to whom would you feel deepest
gratitude? Gratitude? For whatever. You mean
like in a professional sense? People that you're
grateful for what they did, what they meant to you
and to A&M? Well, shoot, Haskell, I could have
mentioned you. But I'm going to bring it closer to
home, I guess. Well, as I said before, I've
suffered by not seeking enough advice, I think,
during my life from whoever. But, you know, Ty
hired me, so of course I'll be holding to him. John
Hopkins... I think, was supportive. I think John
was fair. I'm not sure I always did as much as I
should for the department, but I suppose
Bob Branson, Bob's been a supporter, so I credit
Bob with putting up with me and being helpful. I
don't know, there's so many people it's hard to
really make that, you know, answer that question
and say, well, this is the guy that because there
was no really mentor as such that I went to a lot and
said, tell me what to do here, tell me what to do
here, although I probably should have, but I
didn't.
Okay.
What were your avocations? What did you do for fun?
For fun? To relax. In the early years, there used to
be some guys in the department who played golf, but
we always felt a little guilty about that because
you weren't supposed to be off during business
hours. So I think some took leave and some didn't.
But that didn't go on many years. I like to play
handball. We play handball at 5 o'clock, maybe
twice a week with Art Gerloh. who Art passed away a
couple, three years ago. Spell his last name.
G-E-R-L-O-W, Art Gerlo. He was a Scandinavian
Cajun from South Louisiana.
Played, you know, some tennis. Bicycling. Did you
play handball with just him, just Art? Well, Art,
the handball players now, Stan Lowy was a handball
player. Stan Steven, who you know, was a banker. A
lot of graduate students. We played handball with
graduate students a lot over there in DeWare. It
was the better place to play. Other applications?
Yeah, bicycling. I did a little bit of bicycling
here, there, and yonder. We'd go to rides. And then
now it's racquetball. with the
McCandless and Buck Henderson and people of that
stripe. But other than that, camping. We liked to
camp. That's how we used to go to meetings. The
meetings of the Agricultural Economic
Association used to be held universally. So you
got to go to Washington State or Calgary, Canada,
Oklahoma State, or wherever they were, Kentucky,
Montana, Wyoming. And you took your kids and you
went camping. That's what we did. That was a lot of
fun. A certain era in your life, you do that.
Otherwise, the church. We teach Sunday school
below these many years. Consider that an
avocation, but it's an activity that takes a lot of
your time, as you know. As
If you could give advice now to your department,
what advice would you give it? That's one of those
thought questions. I
guess I would advise it to spend a lot of time trying
to figure out what are the significant problems in
society, economically related problems, that we
should be working on. Not that you're going to
force people into niches to do their work, but I've
always wondered if we spent enough time simply got
research money. We used to have more than we have
now. If we're really working on significant
problems, it's bothered me that we tend to go where
the money is as opposed to where the problems are.
And people with a lot of money don't always have the
worst problems. It always kind of bothered me, and
I certainly wasn't going to do it, that we didn't do
more work in agricultural labor, farm workers,
welfare, and things like that in Texas. But it just
wasn't politically popular. You really
couldn't. We had a guy who tried to do it, and it was
not feasible to do much in that area. So I think, as
researchers, to look at the problems that are
significant as far as teaching goes, that's a good
question. We're getting now into distance
education and stuff like that. Any
areas of emphasis or disemphasis? Well, I would
like, I wish that our graduates, and I'm not saying
that I did, but I wish they had a broader education.
I'm not saying we're vo-tech, but I'm saying we're
pretty, it's a question of are we meeting the job
market, as opposed to, And we don't need to turn out
liberal arts majors, but I think that we suffer
from too narrow an orientation in our department.
And I wish they had, we don't even teach history of
economic thought anymore. Kids used to take, at
least at the graduate level, we had a course on
economics called history of economic thought.
And you went back and you looked at all the way up
from Plato to Marshall and Marx and all these guys.
They don't get that now. What they get is
quantitative knowledge. And I think we come glued
to the computer. numbers and econometric models,
math, stat, that sort of thing. I don't think
that's given us a less rich life than if we had
looked at where did we come from, how did we get
here, what is political science, what is
political economy? And, you know, they should
know who those are, who the big names in the field
were, what they stood for. Who was Keynes? I think a
lot of these kids know who Keynes was. So I think
we've missed a little bit there by not giving a
little more rounded education. So I would argue
for that.
What have we not covered? What have we not covered?
Yeah, what have we left out that you thought I was
going to say? Where do I want to be 10 years from now?
Alive.
Oh, well, we've made lots of good friends here and
the collegiality of meeting people in other
departments and, you know, it's amazing the
contact we've had with historians and blessed by
that. And it's a great community. We have raised
our kids here. Our kids, when we came here, As our
kids grew up, they had the run of the campus. They
could go to G Raleigh and play. They could swim in
the pool. It was just like a little town situation,
and now all that's changed. The kids of faculty
today don't have that privilege, and I'm sorry
they don't, but they can't. There's no way that
would work today, but you know how it was in those
days. It was beautiful. They rode their bikes
everywhere and did what they wanted to. As you,
that caused me to ask a question I haven't asked
anybody else. As you think back, could we, could
A&M have done a much better job of integrating the
student body racially?
Could it have been done more skillfully,
smoothly, with fewer problems? I don't know, you
know, I'm so, I guess, numb to that, that I never
really felt, I know there was problems with kids. I
had an Indian student who got harassed over here
last year, two years ago, because of his race. But
I've never, I always felt the problem was more with
females than it was with racial. The racial thing
was not a big deal on this campus. It probably was,
but I didn't feel it. I really didn't.
And I don't know how the female could have been
handled better No, but it was handled, and the
people, the way they reacted, you can't think
about that. It was going to happen, and I think it
needed to happen. All right, I've got three more
questions here. Of what are you most proud? Of what
am I most proud? We're talking about
professionally. Well, I think the students that
we've helped go through here, the graduate
students, I've had more to do with them. And
teaching. You never know what buttons you've
touched. But you have your moments, as you know,
when lights have gone on and, in some cases,
lifelong friendships from even undergraduates.
But the grad students I've worked with and we still
keep in touch with, the research is important. I
think that's been helpful. But I think there's no
substitute for the people you've worked with as
they came through here. So I would say that the work
we've done with that. The students have been the
most rewarding. Can you think of some specific
moments as samples of those good times?
When this happened or somebody did this or said
that? Well, as you've seen them go out and become
professors or department heads or something like
that, but nothing really flashes up that strikes
me. I'm sure I could think of it if I sat here long
enough. but just in general, that they've been
successful. Getting them in here sometimes was a
problem. Let's make believe someone walks up to
you and gives you a check for a million dollars with
one condition. You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but
you get to decide how they will use that money. You
can make a big gift, and you select the purpose.
What would it be for?
I don't know if it's legal, but
I think I'd make it for scholarships, if you could
ever figure out how, for
eligible low-income kids. Offhand, that'd be my
first thought. It would be scholarships for
people who can't afford to go to school. All right,
how do you pick, then, of all those? That's the
question. No, of all those who are low-income, how
do you select the winners? Well, they'd have to be
academically qualified. qualified, as
academically qualified as anybody else, but
simply can't afford to go to college. Now, you say,
well, if they're academically qualified,
they're going to get a scholarship anyhow. So
maybe there's other places that are better for it,
but that's my first thought, is kids who need the
education but yet can't pay for it. To major in? I
don't really care what they major in. So they get to
go to college. Last question. What feelings do you
have in your heart for Texas A&M today? Well, let me
tell you how we were when we first got here. Mixed
for one thing, but I guess mixed on everything.
It's a unique public institution. I can't think of
another one like it. And I remember when we first
got here, we were like the average, I suppose, new,
recently from the east, by way of Oklahoma. And we
thought, good God, we've come to the end of the
earth. And we weren't that sophisticated. But it
was located out here in the middle of no place. When
we got here, there was one eating place, two, I
guess. There was Arnold's Barbecue and a Rao
Burger in this town. There was no grocery store.
Well, Charlie's, but nobody shopped there. I
mean, we didn't shop there. And we thought, ooh,
where have I brought my family? And yet it grows on
you. And then, of course, things changed.
Certainly it was, and tradition-bound and all
military and all male didn't really know all that
before we got here. I don't know why they didn't
register to know what made a difference or not. But
it is, A&M is a, in some cases, it's a fabulous place
in terms of tradition, in terms of loyalty, in
terms of devotion, and... That sort of thing, it's
beautiful. In terms of other things, it's too, I
won't use the term narrow-minded, but not open to
other ideas like this gay thing, the controversy
they're having and so on. But it's a mixed bag, but
we've, I guess, really come to love it. There are
times you can almost come to tears When you go to
Final Review, not Final Review, but TAPS, not
TAPS, muster. You know, you're just overcome by
the whole thing. And I did go to Silver Taps when
General Rutter died. And so there's things like
that that are beautiful. But then on the other
side, you get these strange things. The whole
bonfire controversy is,
it was just strange, you know, in this day and age.
It was good and bad, and you just wonder about
things like that. But anyhow, I've come to love it,
and I guess I'm still an Okie, but I'm glad we came to
Texas.